Add high level Muzzle docs (#1270)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation: docs/contributing/muzzle.md

# Muzzle

Muzzle is a feature of the Java agent that ensures API compatibility
between libraries/symbols on the application classpath and APIs of instrumented
3rd party libraries used by the Agent. In other words the Muzzle ensures
that the API symbols used by the Agent are compatible with API symbols
on the application classpath. The Muzzle will prevent loading an instrumentation
if the APIs do not match.

## How does it work

> At build time the Muzzle gradle plugin generates a matcher for 3rd party APIs used by the agent.
> The matcher is stored in the instrumentation class in method `ReferenceMatcher getInstrumentationMuzzle()`.

Reviewer: Can you add a sentence explaining where do the symbols come from?

```suggestion
At build time, for each instrumentation the Muzzle ByteBuddy plugin collects symbols referring to both internal and 3rd party APIs used by the currently processed instrumentation. The reference collection process starts from advice classes - values of the map returned by the `Instrumenter.Default#transformers()` method.
All those references are then used to create a `ReferenceMatcher` instance.
The matcher is stored in the instrumentation class in method `ReferenceMatcher getInstrumentationMuzzle()`.
```

Reviewer 2: this is nice, i'm not sure about "internal" APIs though, we do currently, but hopefully we won't after #1233?

Reviewer: Hopefully we'll get rid of at least most of these

At runtime the Muzzle checks API compatibility between symbols used by the Agent
and symbols in the application class loader. Before inspecting the class loader

> the Muzzle plugin checks symbols defined in `SomeInstrumentation.typeMatcher()`

Reviewer 3: Do you mean `classLoaderMatcher`?

Author: No I meant this https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/5d2ae07797069106a1f455f722bafece8c238118/instrumentation/google-http-client-1.19/src/main/java/io/opentelemetry/instrumentation/auto/googlehttpclient/GoogleHttpClientInstrumentation.java#L57

> the Muzzle plugin checks symbols defined in `SomeInstrumentation.typeMatcher()`

Reviewer: Muzzle actually collects symbols from advice classes -- values of the map returned by `transformers()` method. Muzzle by itself calls neither `classLoaderMatcher()` nor `typeMatcher()`.

Author: @trask mentioned that muzzle first checks API referenced in `typeMatcher()` for optimization purposes

> and symbols in the application class loader. Before inspecting the class loader
> the Muzzle plugin checks symbols defined in `SomeInstrumentation.typeMatcher()`
> as a performance optimization. If the symbols do not match the instrumentation
> is not loaded.

Reviewer 2: another suggestion 😄

```suggestion
and symbols in the application class loader. If the symbols do not match the instrumentation is not loaded.
Because the muzzle matcher is expensive, it is only performed after a match has been made by the `classLoaderMatcher()` and `typeMatcher()` matchers. 
```

Author: +1. The match for `classLoaderMatcher()` and `typeMatcher()` is done by ByteBuddy right?

Reviewer: Yeah, it's done a few steps before the `MuzzleMatcher` runs.

## Muzzle gradle plugin

> The `printReferences` task prints 3rd party API references in a given module.

Reviewer: It prints all references that are validated by muzzle -- not only the 3rd party ones.

Reviewer 2: I'm hoping we can optimize it to only check 3rd party ones

Author: ack, changing it to all APIs for now.

```bash
./gradlew :instrumentation:google-http-client-1.19:printReferences
```

## Muzzle location

> * `buildSrc` - Muzzle Gradle plugin

Reviewer 4: This part of muzzle isn't really documented above.  This plugin is responsible for downloading the range of libraries from Maven Central and verifying expected compatibility.  If a new incompatible version is published, this is what will break the build.

Author: Is there also a task to run it explicitly?

Reviewer 4: Yeah, this is what actually runs when you call the `muzzle` task.
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/blob/master/.circleci/config.yml#L132

That can be called at the top level, or for an individual project.
As an optimization, these tasks are only added to gradle if `muzzle` is explicitly listed as a task, otherwise it slows down the config stage substantially.

> * `agent-tooling/src/main/java/io/opentelemetry/javaagent/tooling/muzzle` - Muzzle ByteBuddy plugin

Author: Is this correct? In this location there is `MuzzleGradlePlugin` but it more seems like ByteBuddy plugin as it implements bytebuddy plugin interface.

Author: cc) @tylerbenson

Reviewer 4: The ByteBuddy plugin is what does the source graph traversal to find all the references for purposes of matching at run time as well as build time in the `muzzle` task.

Reviewer: Yeah, it's a ByteBuddy plugin. The name's a bit misleading and it should be changed in the future -- though to be honest I don't have any great idea right now.

Author: We could rename it to `MuzzleByteBuddyPlugin`

Reviewer 2: I created #1288 for renaming it
